                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                             
Title: Predicting Stock Market Performance through Financial Forum Sentiment 
Analysis

Group Members: 
1) Peter Chen; peterlchen@fas.harvard.edu
2) Pritam Dey pritamdey@fas.harvard.edu
3) Sihong Ma: sma01@g.harvard.edu
4) Jaehyon Rhee: jrhee@fas.harvard.edu

Background and Motivation:
Financial markets are fascinating game to watch. In one hand, it's all about
numbers and financials. But on the other hand, it's not so subjective since
one can say it's largely driven by crowd psychology. And behavioral
finance/economists folks have proved that people behave rather irrationally
in financial markets. But these behavioral finance theories are not
data driven. We like to take a data science approach in quantifying whether
crowd psychology as expressed in positive/negative sentiments can be used
as predictive or contrarian indicators. Some of team members have financial
markets background and interests and the team is excited to test these ideas
and see the results. Pluse project general objective has large general appeals
since it's understandable and potentially enjoyed by all.

Project Objectives:
The main scientific and inferential goals are to see if crowd psychology
as reflected in financial forums & potentially Twitter feeds are predictive
or contratrian indicators of market performance. In the popular market 
folklore, people say market is all about fear and greed, which are 
based on crowd psychology. However, those are rather fuzzy definitions. 

By approaching this question systematically through data analyses 
and quantifying what this fear and greed sentiments, we hope to
answer this question in a more scientific manner.

Benefits include finally having a machine that give us buy/sell signals
in the market, which is potentially lucrative or at least fun. Disclaimer
is that this is just a data science project and does not constitute 
investment advice. The more academic benefit is by using more rigorous
and quantitative methods we hope to capture and explain a phenomenon
that is discussed among market participants and have become folklore
and myths. Fear and Greed. Has it been proven empirically? We will find out.

Perhaps, we might find it's nothing. There's no real signal in the crowd
psychology. That might be disappointing, but it will be an interesting to
know definitively as well.

Must-Have Features:
The system must be able to scape web data(elitetrader.com, Yahoo Finance,
and potentially Twitter). Clean it. And then start classifiying words
or word pairs as positive or negative accurately. But we have to time
index these sentiments and calculate percentage of positive/negative
sentiments. Then compare against respective market performance over
N days, where N is small.

Optional Features:
A nice optional feature include "real-time" forecast based on data
scoured from the forums or Twitter feed. Another nice feature might
include interactive viz on the website to look at historical performance
of the predictions,etc.

Another cool feature is perhaps use deep learning algorithms that was 
recently released at nlp.stanford.edu/sentiment/ We don't think we will
have time for that. Deep learning will be able to process an entire
sentence rather than just keywords or pairs of keywords.

What Data?
Data will be obtained from Elitetrader.com and Yahoo Finance forums.
Additional stock market prices & potentially macro news will be download 
from Yahoo Finance as well. We will build web scrapers to scrape and catalog
online forum postings. We'll need to do a lot of preprocessing before 
using that as the training set for our models.

To make the project's scope more manageable, we will concentrate on market
index(i.e. S&P 500, Dow 30,etc.) instead of individual stocks. Moreso, we
will focus on a few instruments that has considerable discussion in popular
forums such as gold and oil. So, at most, we will be tracking 2 indices and 2
popular instruments in discussion instead of tracking tons of random stock 
symbols on these retail trading forums.

Design Overview:
The project will follow standard data science procedures. Data extraction &
cleansing, then modeling, then viz. There are several sites with good
word list and sentiments such as SentiWordNet and others. 
We will use Naive Bayesian model with both single keywords and 
perhaps even use word pairs(hopefully it's not too sparse). In addition, 
we can also use SVM to train the model on which words
will be positive, negative, or netural for market. We will use

Verification:
This will be done by comparing sentiment indicator with actual market 
performance. That is if a tweet or forum "positive" sentiment lead to
positive return(this is directly predictive), but if it leads to negative
returns then it's a contrarian indicator. We can look over 1,2,3,..N day
horizon to calculate returns. We will need to calculate the accuracy of
our models. What percentage of time does it accurate predict future
market returns? Consistently predicting the wrong way means that sentiment
is a contrarian indicator. Consistently predicting the right direction
would be a predictive indicator.

We are not trying to predict ACTUAL magnitutde of returns(positive 
or negative). Just the direction(up or down) using sentiments. 
Anything above 50% would be better than random guessing market direction.

Visualization & Presentation:
The results will be visualized and broken down by comparing the two
market indices and sentiment prediction of the direction within N days,
where N is small. The same for gold and oil prices. These will be
standard line graphs. We can also visualize the bag of words or keywords
that seem to be most predictive or contrarian.

However, we are still exploring other 
ways to make the results more appealing and interactive.

Schedule:
Week1: Data Extraction from Elitetrader.com & Yahoo Finance, data cleanup
Week1 & Week2: Pass partial data set to modelling team; Week2 is focus on
training the model and making predictions from it
Week3: Build website and continue to collect data and refine model
Week4: Work on data visualization, presentation, and website
